In this lesson we will combine everything that we have learned about CSSA so far and use it in a real
world application.
So this means there are no new topics in this lesson for you to wrap your mind around.
Instead we're going to work together to style this example web page to look something like this.
I think we can all agree that this page looks better than this.
Now you already have all of the tools and knowledge necessary to do this.
I'm going to write all of the code together as a team.
So let's get started.
The first thing that we will do is assigned a different background color to the overall page.
So instead of white Let's choose a green color.
I'm using Adobe Photoshop color picker.
If you don't have photoshop that's OK.
Simply perform a web search for H TNL color picker.
So I've chosen this shade of green so I will copy and paste this 6 character hexadecimal color code
and in our CSS I will target the H TNL element that is the ultimate container of our entire page.
It's one level up even from the body tag.
So we're selecting HVM now and then we'll just assign it a background color.
So this is your first time in the course seeing hexadecimal color codes.
Usually we've been typing in simple keywords for colors.
So when you have a hexadecimal color code it's six characters long and you include a pound symbol before
it.
It's that simple.
So this character code represents a very specific unique shade of green.
So if I save and refresh we can see that it's been applied.
Next let's give the container for our web site's content a background color of white.
So you will remember that in the HMO.
All of our content lives within a div with a class of container.
So in our C Ss we already have a rule for container.
Simply say background color or use the hexadecimal color code for white which is six F's but you can
shorten it to just three F's.
So if we save and refresh we can see that that's taken place.
Next let's add padding on the left and right of our container so that the content doesn't sit right
up against the edge container padding left we'll say 40 pixels padding right 40 pixels.
That looks excellent.
However it changed the overall width of the container.
So now instead of having a width of 940 our container is over 1000 pixels wide.
So you remember from an earlier lesson we can simply say box sizing border box and then the padding
will remain.
But it doesn't change the overall calculated width of the element.
So this looks good.
However by adding padding to the container element that reduced the available space for our column so
we can see that they no longer fit side by side.
So we need to adjust there with values instead of using pixels we used percentages.
The main column will be 66 percent of the available width and the sidebar will take up 34 percent.
So we can see that our columns are in place once again.
Next let's add a bit of space between the main column and the side bar.
We just added 40 pixels of padding to the container here.
So I think 40 pixels between the two columns would look good.
So in our code I will target the main column and I will give it a bit of padding right.
Forty pixels.
Now if we save this we'll break the layout because the main column is now trying to take up 66 percent
of the width and add 40 pixels of padding on the right.
So we remember that in order to stop the padding from adding to the overall calculated with we can say
box sizing border box.
Excellent.
Now just a quick detail I noticed that there's more text in the sidebar than the main area which is
completely backwards so let's fix that very quickly.
So I'll paste in a bit a new text into the main column and paste into a new text for the sidebar and
that looks much better.
Next I think I'll change the font for the overall page so to do that will target the body element and
we use the font family property or use a font name to Houma.
And if someone's device doesn't have that font installed we will fall back to use any Sans of fun.
Now don't worry too much about this line we will cover CSSA typography in an entire detailed lesson
later on the course but for now this should do the trick so we can see that that changed the font but
the font overall looks a bit too large now.
So I will include another property targeting the body element font size.
Bring it down to 87 percent overall that looks much better.
That was a great example of how powerful the cascade and inheritance are by simply targeting the one
body element.
These font properties are inherited and are cascaded down to the entire page.
Next let's adjust the spacing in the header.
I think there should be less space between this line and this line and there should be more space above
the first line.
First we'll address the space between the two lines.
To do that we'll create a new rule in our CSSA file will target the heading level one element within
the header and remove the margin and then will also select the paragraph element in the header and remove
its margin as well.
Now let's add a bit of space above the main title to do that will simply target the header itself and
say padding top 20 pixels.
It's also about a bit of space on the bottom
so the spacing of the header looks a lot better now.
Next let's adjust the color of the text in the header.
So let's choose a slightly darker green shade and picking a darker color and you can see the hexadecimal
color code is different now.
So we'll say all elements that live inside the header element.
So all of this content should have a color of this shade of green that looks nice.
Let's make this heading level one element not be bold.
Here's the rule for that font weight normal.
And also let's actually give it a smaller font size as well.
That looks a lot better.
Next let's choose a better color or a more subtle color for these border lines.
Hop over to our color picker.
And I want to choose a very light green about that.
So we'll copy that color code.
We'll find the content area that has the top and bottom borders and instead of black or paste and our
color code that looks much better.
Next let's give this sidebar area a background color that matches these new subtle borders.
We'll find the rule for our Sidebar.
Here it is background color paste in the light green.
OK we can see that we need a bit of padding on this so that the text doesn't sit right up against the
edges padding left 40 pixels padding right.
Forty pixels and we can see that once again by adding horizontal padding we've broken the layout because
the sidebar is now trying to use up 34 percent of the width plus this extra room for padding.
So we know to fix that box sizing border box much better.
Let's go ahead and make the sidebar use a slightly smaller font size than the main column side bar font
size to go with 85 percent.
That looks great.
Next let's give the footer a bit of attention.
So I think this will look better if it was horizontally centered.
So Target the foot or in the style sheet.
Text the line center much better now because this is fuller text.
We don't want to draw the human eye to it.
So let's make it a bit smaller and also use a color that's more subtle to font size 85 percent and color
.
I'll go with a lighter gray.
Nine nine nine.
That looks great.
Let's add a bit of space below the footer padding bottom 20 pixels and also give an extra bit of space
on top so padding top 20 pixels that looks much better.
Our layout is almost complete.
Let's make a few minor adjustments.
I think the sidebar would look better if they had a bit of vertical padding above and below the text
so it will find the sidebar.
We will add a few new declarations padding top 20 pixels padding bottom 20 pixels.
I think that looks a lot better.
Now I wouldn't be doing my job if I didn't show you a quick tip to write cleaner code.
So you can see that we have four declarations just to control padding on this one element.
Now there's something named CSSA shorthand which will allow us to write much cleaner code.
So all we wanted is 40 pixels of padding horizontally and 20 pixels of padding vertically.
So we can say padding.
And then we can include four values so the top value comes first goes in a clockwise fashion.
If you think of a clock moving its hand around.
So we start at the top 20 then on the right we want 40 pixels.
Then on the bottom we want 20 and then on the left we want 40.
So if we save in C nothing changes.
It's the exact same as if we still had four different declarations for padding top padding right padding
bottom.
Now with CSS shorthand for padding we can take this even a step further instead of having all four values
in a clockwise fashion.
We can simply include one value for vertical up and down and one value for horizontal.
So this will achieve the same thing as well.
So that's your first taste of CSF shorthand.
We will be finding out that there is different shorthand for different properties throughout the remainder
of this course and it will allow you to write much cleaner more succinct code.
Now that's going to bring this lesson to a close I will mention that I'm aware this layout looks a bit
dated.
So this does not look like the most modern beautifully visually pleasing Web site but you need to walk
before you can run.
So in future lessons we will be learning how to create more modern flexible looking layouts but I think
this was a good first step and a good exercise in combining all of your existing knowledge and applying
it to a real example.
Just a quick heads up that if you have a spare moment or two I would really appreciate it if you could
go and rate and review this course.
I hope you're enjoying the course and finding it helpful.
But even if you're not above all else an honest review is the best review.
And I would love for prospective students to be able to see honest impressions of the course.
I'll see you in the next lesson.